README.md, before:

# jbhannah.net

This is the code that powers [jbhannah.net](http://jbhannah.net/), built
in Ruby on Rails and configured to run in a production environment of
nginx, reverse-proxied to a Thin cluster, with PostgreSQL as the
database backend. Deployment is done using Capistrano.

## Requirements

The server jbhannah.net is hosted on is a [Linode
VPS](http://www.linode.com) running the latest release of Ubuntu Server,
firewalled to allow connections only over ports 80 (www) and 22 (ssh).
All requirements are described under that assumption.

### User

A user called `jbhannah` exists and is SSH private-key enabled. The user
is allowed to run commands with `sudo`. `root` and password-based SSH
logins are disabled.


### Ruby

Ruby 1.9.3 is installed via a system-wide (root)
[RVM](http://beginrescueend.com/rvm/) installation.

### Javascript runtime

[Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) is installed through `apt` via a PPA:

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:chris-lea/node.js
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install nodejs

### nginx

The latest version of [nginx](http://nginx.org/) is installed through
`apt` with the default configuration enabled and the directive

    listen   [::]:80 default ipv6only=on;

uncommented in the server block, allowing IPv6 connections over a
dedicated socket.

### PostgreSQL

The latest version of [PostgreSQL](http://www.postgresql.org/) is
installed through `apt` without any configuration changes. A user called
`jbhannah` is created:

    $ sudo -u postgres createuser jbhannah
    Shall the new role be a superuser? (y/n) n
    Shall the new role be allowed to create databases? (y/n) y
    Shall the new role be allowed to create more new roles? (y/n) n

Since the app is run under the same username, local database connections
are allowed via `ident` authentication, which is the default in
PostgreSQL on Ubuntu.

## Configuration

### Application

`config/application.yml` contains values that are used application-wide.
[Settingslogic](https://github.com/binarylogic/settingslogic) is used to
read the properties defined in this file.

### Thin

The application is run on a two-instance Thin cluster, configured at
`config/thin.yml`, which listens over UNIX sockets for requests
forwarded by nginx.

### nginx

During the deployment process, a configuration file at
`config/nginx.conf` is symbolically linked into the nginx system
configuration directory at `/etc/nginx/sites-available`, and the
configuration is then reloaded. The configuration file is written such
that

 * requests to www.jbhannah.net are redirected to jbhannah.net
 * static asset requests are handled by nginx directly
 * all other requests are reverse-proxied to the Thin cluster

## Deployment

From the local development machine:

    $ cap deploy:setup
    $ cap deploy:check
    $ cap deploy

The application can be started, stopped, and restarted with

    $ cap deploy:start
    $ cap deploy:stop
    $ cap deploy:restart

nginx can be reloaded with

    $ cap nginx:reload

Commit message:

Credit in README for social media icons

README.md, after:

# jbhannah.net

This is the code that powers [jbhannah.net](http://jbhannah.net/), built
in Ruby on Rails and configured to run in a production environment of
nginx, reverse-proxied to a Thin cluster, with PostgreSQL as the
database backend. Deployment is done using Capistrano. Social media
icons are from
[IconDock](http://icondock.com/free/vector-social-media-icons).

## Requirements

The server jbhannah.net is hosted on is a [Linode
VPS](http://www.linode.com) running the latest release of Ubuntu Server,
firewalled to allow connections only over ports 80 (www) and 22 (ssh).
All requirements are described under that assumption.

### User

A user called `jbhannah` exists and is SSH private-key enabled. The user
is allowed to run commands with `sudo`. `root` and password-based SSH
logins are disabled.


### Ruby

Ruby 1.9.3 is installed via a system-wide (root)
[RVM](http://beginrescueend.com/rvm/) installation.

### Javascript runtime

[Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) is installed through `apt` via a PPA:

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:chris-lea/node.js
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install nodejs

### nginx

The latest version of [nginx](http://nginx.org/) is installed through
`apt` with the default configuration enabled and the directive

    listen   [::]:80 default ipv6only=on;

uncommented in the server block, allowing IPv6 connections over a
dedicated socket.

### PostgreSQL

The latest version of [PostgreSQL](http://www.postgresql.org/) is
installed through `apt` without any configuration changes. A user called
`jbhannah` is created:

    $ sudo -u postgres createuser jbhannah
    Shall the new role be a superuser? (y/n) n
    Shall the new role be allowed to create databases? (y/n) y
    Shall the new role be allowed to create more new roles? (y/n) n

Since the app is run under the same username, local database connections
are allowed via `ident` authentication, which is the default in
PostgreSQL on Ubuntu.

## Configuration

### Application

`config/application.yml` contains values that are used application-wide.
[Settingslogic](https://github.com/binarylogic/settingslogic) is used to
read the properties defined in this file.

### Thin

The application is run on a two-instance Thin cluster, configured at
`config/thin.yml`, which listens over UNIX sockets for requests
forwarded by nginx.

### nginx

During the deployment process, a configuration file at
`config/nginx.conf` is symbolically linked into the nginx system
configuration directory at `/etc/nginx/sites-available`, and the
configuration is then reloaded. The configuration file is written such
that

 * requests to www.jbhannah.net are redirected to jbhannah.net
 * static asset requests are handled by nginx directly
 * all other requests are reverse-proxied to the Thin cluster

## Deployment

From the local development machine:

    $ cap deploy:setup
    $ cap deploy:check
    $ cap deploy

The application can be started, stopped, and restarted with

    $ cap deploy:start
    $ cap deploy:stop
    $ cap deploy:restart

nginx can be reloaded with

    $ cap nginx:reload
